RTS 16 – Use of third party software
Applies to:
Peer-to-peer gambling
RTS aim 16
To make customers in peer-to-peer gambling aware that they may be gambling against a software
program (designed to automatically participate in gambling within certain parameters, sometimes
referred to as a bot), or a human aided by third party software.
RTS requirement 16A
Where peer-to-peer customers may be gambling against programs deployed by other customers to
play on their behalf, or customers assisted by third party software, information should be made
available that describes that this is possible, and if it is against the operator’s terms and conditions,
how to report suspected use.
RTS implementation guidance 16A
a. The warning and information about how to complain should be included in game descriptions,
rules, terms and conditions, ‘help’, ‘how to play’ or other general product information pages.
b. The warning should also inform customers that if they use a program to gamble on their behalf,
other customers may be able to exploit it.
RTS requirement 16B
Operators must make it clear to players whether the use of third party software is permitted and if so
which types. Operators that prohibit certain types of third party software must implement measures
intended to deter, prevent, and detect their use.
RTS implementation guidance 16B
Clear, accessible information about the types of software that are permitted or prohibited should be
included within terms and conditions and the players guide3 , as a minimum. This does not have to
be an extensive list but could be a description of the key features of the software.
RTS requirement 16C
Where operators use programs to participate in gambling on their behalf in peer-to-peer gambling,
easily accessible information must be displayed, which clearly informs customers that the operator
uses this kind of software.
RTS implementation guidance 16C
a. Peer-to-peer gambling operators that use software to gamble on their behalf (for example,
poker robots) should display a notice to customers on the home pages or screens and in the
game description, ‘help’ or ‘how to play/bet’ pages or screens.
b. As a minimum, restricted display devices should provide a link to further information on
gambling pages/screens or in ‘help’, ‘about’ or ‘how to bet/play’ pages or screens.