RTS 9 – Progressive jackpot systems
Applies to:
Gaming (including bingo)
RTS aim 9
To ensure that progressive jackpot systems operate fairly.
RTS requirement 9A
An explanation of the jackpot rules must be clearly available to the customer before they commit to
gamble.
RTS implementation guidance 9A
a. The rules for a jackpot shall describe how it is funded, what the start-up seed and any ceiling values
are. The jackpot system’s return to player percentage should be displayed as per RTS 3C, this could
be one combined game and progressive jackpot RTP figure or broken down into the base game and
jackpot component. If a player is not eligible for a game’s progressive jackpot prize this should be
made clear, along with their respective theoretical RTP.
b. The rules for a jackpot shall describe how the prizes are determined and awarded, including what
happens when two or more players simultaneously trigger the same jackpot, or appear to
simultaneously trigger the jackpot, for example due to network latency issues.
c. All eligible players should be able to see the current jackpot values and these should be updated as
frequently as is practicable, particularly after the amount has been reset following a win.
d. Where a jackpot is capped at a ceiling value, an explanation of how subsequent player contributions
are handled should be provided (for example, the operation of any redirected overflow or reserve
pools).
RTS requirement 9B
Jackpot systems must be configured and operated with adequate fairness and security.
RTS implementation guidance 9B
a. The gambling system shall maintain strict access and logging controls over the configuration and
changes made to live jackpots.
b. Where a customer contributes to a jackpot pool, that customer should be eligible to win the jackpot
whilst they are playing that game. The chances of winning a jackpot should increase in correlation
with the amount contributed.
c. Where a jackpot containing player contributions is decommissioned those contributions need to be
returned fairly according to the circumstances, with priority given to the players who made the
contributions. Some example methods to achieve this include:
i. waiting until the jackpot is next awarded before decommissioning it.
ii. adding any remaining contributions onto another jackpot system, preferably one with a similar
player base.
iii. returning remaining contributions as a one off event, with adequate customer disclosure to
explain the origin of money.
d. The gambling system shall ensure that a winning customer is notified of a jackpot win immediately
after it is triggered and that other participating customers are adequately notified of the jackpots reset
value.