ISO 27001 Information Security In Supplier Relationships

ISO 27001 Annex A 5.19 Information Security In Supplier Relationships is an ISO 27001 control that requires an organisation to mange the information security risks of using supplier products and services.
It is about securing the supply chain.
Suppliers represent one of your biggest risks as you cannot directly manage them or influence them and it is likely you rely on them, they have your data and provide services that you need to be successful.
Purpose

The purpose of ISO 27001 Annex A 5.19 is a preventive control that ensures you maintain an agreed level of information security in supplier relationships.
Definition

The ISO 27001 standard defines ISO 27001 Annex A 5.19 as:
Processes and procedures should be defined and implemented to manage the information security risks associated with the use of supplier’s products or services.
Implementation Guide

We are going to rely on a couple of mechanism to ensure Information Security In Supplier Relationships.
Topic Specific Policy

The standard requires a topic specific policy on supplier relationships – ISO 27001 Supplier Policy Template
Supplier Management Process

You will need a supplier management process that sets out
how to identify and document suppliers and supplier types
evaluating suppliers according to information process, transmitted or shared
reviewing the controls that are in place
documenting what suppliers can access, monitor, control and use
assessing and managing supplier risks
monitoring and ensuring compliance to information security
implementing mitigation for non compliance of a supplier
the handling of incidents
availability, business continuity and disaster recovery
managing the transfer of information
the process for terminating and ending a supplier / supplier relationship
what level of security of people and physical security are expected
ISO 27001 Supplier Register

The best way to manage ISO 27001 Suppliers is via the ISO 27001 Supplier Register. You can learn more in the ISO 27001 Supplier Register Beginner’s Guide
Supplier Agreements / Contracts

The number one recommendation is to seek professional legal counsel for the provision of all contracts. The following is guidance but you should always defer to professional legal counsel. Always. You are not a lawyer. We are not a lawyer.
Our first line of defence and go to is the supplier agreement or supplier contract. At its core it is a legal mechanism that is legally binding and provides the greatest level of overall protection.
It sets out what is required, what will be done, who will do it, what happens if things go wrong.
What information is to be provided, accessed and the methods of access.
Legal, regulatory and contractual requirements. Elements such as intellectual property rights, copyright information, data protection requirements.
The controls and levels of controls that are required by both parties to the agreement.
Acceptable and unacceptable use of assets.
How to grant and remove access
Penalties, indemnities and remediation for failings to meet the contract.
Contact information
Screening requirements for staff were legally enforceable.
How evidence and assurance of information security will be provided
Rights to audit
How to solve problems or conflicts with the contract
Appropriate back up, business continuity and disaster recovery
The process for change management
Physical security as appropriate
Information transfer processes
Termination clauses and processes
Destruction and removal of data processes
Handover at the end of the contract
Contracts are kept and recorded in the Third Party Supplier Register. They are reviewed at least annually, based on risk and significant change or event.
How to comply

To comply with ISO 27001 Annex A 5.19 you are going to implement the ‘how’ to the ‘what’ the control is expecting. In short measure you are going to
Implement a topic specific policy
Implement an supplier management process
Implement an ISO 27001 supplier register
How to pass the audit

To pass an audit of ISO 27001 Annex A 5.19 you are going to make sure that you have followed the steps above in how to comply.
You are going to do that by first conducting an internal audit, following the How to Conduct an ISO 27001 Internal Audit Guide.
What the auditor will check

The audit is going to check a number of areas. Lets go through the most common
1. That you have a supplier management process

The auditor is going to check the rules, procedures and supplier management methodology and make sure you followed them. Make sure all suppliers are listed, you have contracts or agreements or terms for each supplier and that you have assurance they are doing the right thing for information security.
2. That you have an ISO 27001 Supplier Register

You will need an ISO 27001 Supplier Register to record and manage your suppliers. Make sure it is up to date and reflects your reality.
3. Documentation

They are going to look at audit trails and all your documentation and see that is classified and labelled. All the documents that you show them, as a minimum if they are confidential should be labelled as such. Is the document up to date. Has it been reviewed in the last 12 months. Does the version control match.
Top 3 Mistakes People Make

The top 3 Mistakes People Make For ISO 27001 Annex A 5.19 are
1. You have no contracts or legal terms with a supplier

Make sure that there is a contract, agreement, terms of business or some legal mechanism for engaging with suppliers and you have a copy, it is in date and covers what you are using.
2. You have no assurance they are doing the right thing for information security

Make sure you have done your security assessment and can place your hands on an in date certificate such as an ISO 27001 Certification for assurance they are doing the right thing. It needs to be in date a cover the products and / or services you have acquired and are using form the supplier.
3. Your document and version control is wrong

Keeping your document version control up to date, making sure that version numbers match where used, having a review evidenced in the last 12 months, having documents that have no comments in are all good practices.