ISO 27001 Information Security Event Reporting is the requirement for organisations to provide a way for people to report observed or suspected information security events in a timely manner. It is also known as ISO27001:2022 Annex A 6.8 Information Security Event Reporting.
Key Takeaways

The easiest mechanism for reporting information security incidents is via email or an online form
Incidents should be reported as soon as they are observed or suspected
People need to be educated on how to report incidents
Benefits of implementing Information Security Event Reporting

The benefits of implementing ISO 27001 Information Security Event Reporting include:
Reducing the risk of data breaches by catching events early
Reduced cost of incidents by catching and managing events early
Mitigating legal liability by acting and responding
You cannot get ISO 27001 certification without it
Protection of confidential information
Building trust with employees and third parties
Reputation Protection
How to implement ISO 27001 Information Security Event Reporting

You are going to have to
implement a process for reporting information security events
educate people how to report events
assign responsibility for managing information security events
educate people who to report events to
Reporting Mechanisms

How security events should be reported?
The process for reporting incidents and events can take many forms and you may choose one, some or all of them. Examples of appropriate channels include reporting via:
email
an on line form
a telephone number
messenger / chat
Reporting Timeframe

How quickly should you report suspected or actual events?
People should report suspected or actual information security events as soon as possible / at the first opportunity. Significantly, there are some laws and regulations that have very specific timelines for reporting and what needs to happen, such as the GDPR so the guidance is to tell people report as soon as they can. This includes out of hours and at weekends.
Event Reporting

Who are security events are reported to?
Internal Reporting

Typically incidents will get reported to the information security manager. While in a larger organisation or mature organisation the first point of call is usually a unified help desk or support function that acts as the coordinator and gatekeeper and then allocates that ticket to the information security manager.
Reporting includes:
IT Service Desk: The central point for incident reporting and management
Chief Information Security Officer (CISO): Oversee incidents and incident response
information security manager: Management of security incidents and usually the first point of contact
Legal: Management of any legal implications of security incidents
External Reporting

External reporting is done under the guidance and direction of the legal department or representative and often includes:
Law enforcement
Regulators
Customers
Suppliers
Event Definition

What types of events should be reported?
The guidance should be that if in doubt, report it. Better to air on the side of caution. That said, the kind of information security events that should be reported include but are not limited to:
Actual or suspect data breach
Information Security Controls that are not working
Loss of device
Emailing the wrong person
Physical security breach
Virus infection
Malware infection
Systems not working as intended
Ransomware
Phishing email / clicking a link
Event Investigation

Who is responsible for investigating security events?
The responsibility for investigating security events will depend on the organisation’s specific structure and processes. However, it is typically assigned to a designated security team or individual.
How to pass the audit

To comply with ISO 27001 Annex A 6.8 and pass the audit you are going to implement the ‘how’ to the ‘what’ the control is expecting. You are going to:
Implement your information security event reporting process
Have the process approved by management
Assign ownership of the process to competent resource
Tell people about the process
Include different channels for people to be able to report events
Plan to review your process at least annually or if significant changes occur
Keep records of your reported events
What the auditor will check

The audit is going to check a number of areas for compliance with ISO 27001 Annex A 6.8. Lets go through them
1. That you have documented your process for event reporting

What this means is that you will have a document that sets out what the process for event reporting is and includes the roles and responsibilities are that are involved. It will cover the different ways in which events can be reported taking into account the culture and set up of the organisation. It will set out what needs doing and what will be done.
2. That you have allocated your roles and responsibilities

For the roles and responsible that you have defined and documented you are going to allocate people to them to do the work. Has each defined role been allocated to someone and can you say who if asked? In addition it will check that those people are competent to perform the roles.
3. That events were responded to in a timely manner

The definition of a timely manner will come down to your own circumstances but you are going to consider any legal or regulatory constraints that may be imposed. For example consider requirements for reporting data breaches under GDPR in 72 hours. The audit will check the reporting and response to incidents and that any time requirements were met.
Top 3 Mistakes People Make

In my experience, the top 3 mistakes people make for ISO 27001 Annex A 6.8 are
1. You have no evidence that anything actually happened

There needs to be records and minutes of everything. For evidence, you are need a paper trail to show it was done. Make sure you have updated communication plans, records of events, records of how you responded to events and in what timeframe. If it isn’t written down it didn’t happen.
2. One or more members of your team haven’t done what they should have done

Before the audit check that all members of the team have done what they should have. For example, do they know where the process documents are? Have events been recorded and do you know where that record it. If events led to risks or continual improvement can you show the link and evidence it. Check!
3. Your document and version control is wrong

The following are good document mark up best practice
Keeping your document version control up to date
making sure that version numbers match where used
having a review evidenced in the last 12 months
having documents that have no comments in